Doc Reorg:  Get Started (#2057)
SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI: docs/get_started.rst

Get Started
===========

> 

Reviewer: And maybe we can use the rST "note" directive to include a note to the effect of "These installation instructions assume some familiarity with entering commands into a terminal. If that's completely new to you, we recommend starting with the trail [link] to walk you through step by step."

Install CumulusCI
-----------------

On macOS / Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
`Homebrew <https://brew.sh/>`_ is a prerequisite for installing CumulusCI on macOS and Linux.

Install via ``pipx`` (recommended)
*************************************
The following will install ``pipx``, ensure that pipx is in your ``PATH`` environment variable, and then install CumulusCI:

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: This code block isn't rendering correctly. You need a blank line before `..` directives.

Once finished, you can `verify your installation`_.

On Windows
^^^^^^^^^^

Install Python 3
********************
1. Go to the `Python downloads page <https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/>`_.
2. Download the latest Python 3 release. Most users should select the "Download Windows x86-64 executable installer" link for the most recent stable release, but it may depend on your particular computer setup.
3. Use the installation wizard to install.
   *Be sure to check the "Add Python to environment variables" checkbox at the end of the install wizard*,
   otherwise you may encounter a ``command not found`` error with the next step.
   To access the Advanced Options area, select "Customize Installation" then click through Optional features page.

.. image:: images/windows_python.png

Install via ``pipx``
***********************

Open your preferred terminal application
(e.g. `CMD.exe <https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/tutorials/windows-command-prompt-introduction/>`_ on Windows).
If you already have your terminal open, close it and reopen it. Enter the following command::

    $ python -m pip install --user pipx

.. image:: images/pipx.png

> To permanently modify the default environment variables, follow these steps. Note that to change System variables, you need non-restricted access to your machine (i.e. Administrator rights).

Author: confirmed, this works on windows!

   a. ``%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\Python\Python37\Scripts``
   b. ``%USERPROFILE%\.local\bin``

.. image:: images/env-var.png

Open a new command prompt and verify that pipx is available::

    $ pipx --version

You should see a version number after entering in this command, such as: ``0.12.3.1``.
If you get an error instead, such as ``'pipx' is not recognized as an internal or external command,
operable program or batch file.``, please check that your environment variables have been updated.

You can now install CumulusCI with::

    $ pipx install cumulusci

Now `verify your installation`_.

Verify Your Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In a new terminal window can verify that CumulusCI is installed correctly by running ``cci version``:

.. code:: console

    $ cci version
    CumulusCI version: 3.19.0 (/path/to/bin/cci)
    Python version: 3.8.5 (/path/to/bin/python)

    You have the latest version of CumulusCI.

You can also use this command in the future to check whether your CumulusCI installation is up to date.

Still need help? `CumulusCI's issues on GitHub <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI/issues>`_ may have something useful.

> 

Reviewer 2: Good question. There's a short bit in Scratch Orgs that covers it briefly, but it might fit better here. Putting it here might align better with Trailhead given that we do all of the setup of a piece there. I'm not sure I have a very strong opinion, though.

> 

Author: @davisagli - I'm going to include part of the section we have currently in the tutorial on setting up sfdx.

Connect to GitHub
-----------------
In order to allow CumlusCI to work with your CumulusCI projects in GitHub, you need to connect GitHub as a service in ``cci``.

First, `create a new personal access token <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>`_ with both "repo" and "gist" scopes specified.
(Scopes appear as checkboxes when creating the personal access token in GitHub).
Copy the access token to use as the password when configuring the GitHub service.

Next, run the following command and provide your GitHub username and the access token as the password::

    $ cci service connect github

You can verify the GitHub service is connected by running ``cci service list``:

.. image:: images/service-list.png

Once you've configured the ``github`` service it will be available to **all** CumulusCI projects.
Services are stored in the global CumulusCI keychain by default.

Work on an Existing CumulusCI Project
-------------------------------------
Before working on an existing CumulusCI project you need to:

* `Install CumulusCI`_
* `Install git <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git>`_

> 

Reviewer: could use an introduction along the lines of "Use this section if there is an existing CumulusCI project on GitHub that you'd like to work on. Note: CumulusCI does not support projects stored on other git hosts such as BitBucket or GitLab at this time."

    package:
        name: CumulusCI Test
        name_managed: None
        namespace: ccitest
        install_class: None
        uninstall_class: None
        api_version: 33.0
    git:
        default_branch: main
        prefix_feature: feature/
        prefix_beta: beta/
        prefix_release: release/
        release_notes:
            parsers:
                1:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Critical Changes
                2:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Changes
                3:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubIssuesParser
                    title: Issues Closed
                4:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: New Metadata
                5:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Deleted Metadata
        repo_url: https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-Test
    test:
        name_match: %_TEST%

> 

Reviewer: we should have a link here to direct them to the next section of the docs, since the rest of this page is for different starting scenarios.

Starting a New CumulusCI Project
--------------------------------

> This section assumes that you have CumulusCI and ``git`` installed on your host.

Reviewer: We should include a link for installing git like in the previous section.

Maybe start off with something like "Follow this section if you want to start a brand new CumulusCI project."

We first need to make a directory with our project's name, navigate into the directory, and initialize it as a git repository.

.. code-block:: console

    $ mkdir cci_project; cd cci_project

>     $ git init

Reviewer: We should really make `cci project init` take care of these steps.

Author: I made this a story for myself.

If you're coming from developing on scratch orgs, then you likely only need to do `project setup`_ and `org shape setup`.
If you're working out of persistent orgs, then you will likely want to go through *all* of the following sections.
Your experience may vary.
You're welcome to discuss project conversion in the `CumulusCI Trailblazer group <https://trailblazers.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F9300000009M9Z>`_.

Project Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Create a directory for your project to live in, and navigate to it::

    $ mkdir mySalesforceProject; cd mySalesforceProject

#. Initialize the directory as a git repository::

    $ git init
    Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/MrCCI/repos/mySalesforceProject/.git/

#. Initialize the repository as a CumulusCI project. See `project initialization`_.

Metadata Capture
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> We're assuming that your project currently lives in a persistent org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're assuming that your project currently lives in a persistent org, such as a Developer Edition org or a sandbox.
```

We recommend a retrieve of MetaData via the MetaData API (via ``sfdx``), followed by converting the source format from "metadata" to "``sfdx``".

> #. `Create a package <https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=creating_packages.htm&language=en_us&r=https:%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F&type=5>`_ in the target org.

Reviewer: How about "If the metadata you want to retrieve is not already in a package, create one."

Also, take the query string parameters out of the URL. We don't want to force the reader to read the SF docs in English, and they aren't coming from google...

>     * Ensure that the package namespace matches the namespace you entered when running ``cci project init``.

Reviewer: If the existing package is not managed, it may not have a namespace. And If the user didn't indicate that they are creating a managed package while running `cci project init`, they would not have been prompted for a namespace.

#. Run the `retrieve command <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_reference.meta/sfdx_cli_reference/cli_reference_force_mdapi.htm#cli_reference_retrieve>`_ to extract your package metadata::

    $ sfdx force:mdapi:retrieve -p package_name -r /path/to/project/ 

> #. Navigate to your projects root directory (i.e. where the ``src/`` folder lives), and you can now convert your metadata to source (``sfdx``) format with ``cci``::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Navigate to your project's root directory (i.e. where the ``src/`` folder lives), and you can now convert your metadata to source (``sfdx``) format with ``cci``::
```

Reviewer: Use `force:source:retrieve` instead, with the -n option, and then there's no need for a separate conversion step.

Get Started
===========

Install CumulusCI
-----------------

On macOS / Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
`Homebrew <https://brew.sh/>`_ is a prerequisite for installing CumulusCI on macOS and Linux.
To install homebrew enter the following command into a terminal window:

.. code-block:: console

>     $ /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

Author: I personally feel like the  documentation is already going to be quite large, so the more we can link to other documentation, the better. 

This does come with the potential negative impact on non-developer personas. If other docs are solely written for developers than their instructions may not be friendly to all. However, I think we also have internal documentation for CumulusCI setup for new team-members which is where we could include more hand-holding (if needed).

(e.g. `CMD.exe <https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/tutorials/windows-command-prompt-introduction/>`_ on Windows).
If you already have your terminal open, close it and reopen it. Enter the following command::

    $ python -m pip install --user pipx

.. image:: images/pipx.png

To permanently modify the default environment variables:

1. Click Start and search for â€˜edit environment variablesâ€™ or open System properties,
   Advanced system settings.
2. Click the Environment Variables button.
3. To change System variables, you need non-restricted access to your machine
   (i.e. Administrator rights). Add the following paths to your PATH environment variable:

   a. ``%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\Python\Python37\Scripts``
   b. ``%USERPROFILE%\.local\bin``

.. image:: images/env-var.png

Open a new command prompt and verify that pipx is available::

    $ pipx --version

You should see a version number after entering in this command, such as: ``0.12.3.1``.
If you get an error instead, such as ``'pipx' is not recognized as an internal or external command,
operable program or batch file.``, please check that your environment variables have been updated.

> You can now install CumulusCI with::

Author: @davidmreed - Sphinx treats these the same as the `.. code-block:: console`

Connect to GitHub
-----------------
In order to allow CumlusCI to work with your CumulusCI projects in GitHub, you need to connect GitHub as a service in ``cci``.

First, `create a new personal access token <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>`_ with both "repo" and "gist" scopes specified.
(Scopes appear as checkboxes when creating the personal access token in GitHub).
Copy the access token to use as the password when configuring the GitHub service.

Next, run the following command and provide your GitHub username and the access token as the password::

    $ cci service connect github

You can verify the GitHub service is connected by running ``cci service list``:

.. image:: images/service-list.png

Once you've configured the ``github`` service it will be available to **all** CumulusCI projects.
Services are stored in the global CumulusCI keychain by default.

Work on an Existing CumulusCI Project
-------------------------------------
To work on existing CumulusCI project all you need is to:

* `Install CumulusCI`_
* `Install git <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git>`_
* Make a local clone of the projects GitHub repository.

> Cloning a GitHub Repository

Reviewer: I could go either way on this. If we do include specific instructions on cloning, we should at least mention that there are other ways and link to them.

        release_notes:
            parsers:
                1:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Critical Changes
                2:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Changes
                3:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubIssuesParser
                    title: Issues Closed
                4:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: New Metadata
                5:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Deleted Metadata
        repo_url: https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-Test
    test:
        name_match: %_TEST%

Starting a New CumulusCI Project
--------------------------------
This section assumes that you have CumulusCI and ``git`` installed on your host.
We first need to make a directory with our project's name, navigate into the directory, and initialize it as a git repository.

.. code-block:: console

>     $ mkdir cci_project; cd cci_project

Reviewer: Probably safest to put these commands on separate lines.

>     $ mkdir cci_project; cd cci_project

Author: @davidmreed - Both `mkdir` and `cd` are compatible with Windows cmd.exe.

    $ git init

We now need to initialize our project as a CumulusCI project.

Project Initialization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Use the `cci project init` command from within a git repository to generate the initial version of a project's ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `cci project init` command from within a Git repository to generate the initial version of a project's ``cumulusci.yml`` file.
```

.. code-block:: console

>     $ cci project init

Reviewer 2: Should we elaborate on the questions asked here?

Reviewer: I think that's probably a good idea. Could be a table after the example with a row for each question and a column explaining what it is / what it will be used for.

Also this looks out of date; it's missing some of the questions.

    Name: MyRepoName
    Package name: My Repo Name
    Package namespace: mynamespace
    Package api version [38.0]:
    Git prefix feature [feature/]:
    Git default branch [main]:
    Git prefix beta [beta/]:
    Git prefix release [release/]:
    Test namematch [%_TEST%]:
    Your project is now initialized for use with CumulusCI
    You can use the project edit command to edit the project's config file

.. code-block:: console

    $ cat cumulusci.yml
    project:
        name: MyRepoName
        package:
            name: My Repo Name
            namespace: mynamespace

> The newly created `cumulusci.yml` file is the configuration file for your project specific tasks, flows, and CumulusCI customizations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The newly created ``cumulusci.yml`` file is the configuration file for your project-specific tasks, flows, and CumulusCI customizations.
```

> For more information regarding configuraiton, checkout our `project configuration <#TODO internal ref here>`_ section of the docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information regarding configuration, check out our `project configuration <#TODO internal ref here>`_ section of the docs.
```

> You can add and commit it to your git repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add and commit it to your Git repository:
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ git add cumulusci.yml
    $ git commit -m "Initialized CumulusCI Configuration"

> Add Your Repo to GitHub

Reviewer 2: Refer to Trailhead or to GitHub documentation?

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
With your ``cumulusci.yml`` file committed, we now want to create a repository on GitHub for our new project and push our changes there.

#. `Create a new repository <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/articles/creating-a-new-repository>`_ on GitHub.
#. At the top of your GitHub Repository's Quick Setup page, click the clipboard button to copy the remote repository URL.
#. In your terminal, `add the URL for the remote repository <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/articles/adding-a-remote>`_ to where your local repository will be pushed::

    $ git remote add origin <remote_repository_url>

#. Verify the remote was added successfullly with::

    $ git remote -v

#. `Push the changes <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/using-git/pushing-commits-to-a-remote-repository>`_ in your local repository to GitHub::

    $ git push -u origin master

Convert an Existing Salesforce Project
--------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer 2: What about an introductory paragraph here? Maybe something like

    Converting an existing Salesforce project to use CumulusCI may follow a number of different paths, depending on whether you're practicing the Org Development Model or the Package Development Model, whether or not you're already developing in scratch orgs, and the complexity of your project's dependencies on the org environment. We'll explore several examples of how an existing project can be built using CumulusCI. Your experience may vary. You're welcome to discuss project conversion in the CumulusCI Trailblazer group [link].

> Project Setup

Reviewer 2: Can we elide this whole section by referencing above?

^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Create a directory for your project to live in, and navigate to it::

    $ mkdir mySalesforceProject; cd mySalesforceProject

#. Initialize the directory as a git repository::

    $ git init
    Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/MrCCI/repos/mySalesforceProject/.git/

#. Initialize the repository as a CumulusCI project. See `project initialization`_.

Extracting Your Project's Metadata
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Next we need to extract your package metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, we need to extract your project's metadata.
```

Depending on what type of org your project is in, there are different methods for extracting the desired pieces of metadata.

> Production or Developer Edition Orgs

Reviewer 2: I would suggest that we make these sections something like "Existing Scratch Org-based Project" and "Existing Developer Org-Based Project".

I'm not sure source tracking alone is sufficient to be helpful because in many cases existing project won't have SourceMember records. Projects already developed in scratch orgs shouldn't need to do a retrieve at all.

Author: @davidmreed - What are the groups of orgs that make sense to break this up into? I like the idea of (1) if you're developing in a scratch org, then you likely just need to run `sfdx force:source:pull`, and (2) if your project is in _any_ type of persistent org then we recommend this set of steps (currently Production & DE org section).

Let me know your thoughts.

Reviewer 2: My thought is that if the user is already building in scratch orgs, we probably do not need to provide them with assistance with metadata capture - they already have their metadata in place. For those users, the most value we can provide is probably on how to establish their CCI project skeleton, move an existing SFDX org config into `orgs/dev.json`, and start using `dev_org`.

If the user is not already building in scratch orgs, the process they need to follow _does_ likely include metadata capture, regardless of the nature of the org where they are working. In that case, I think we need to cover two main topics:

- Metadata capture
- Org shape setup

Org shape setup will still be relevant for users that are building in a source-based, but sandbox- or developer org-oriented, process.

*******************************************

> #. Create a package for your - If you're looking to deploy back to the same org, or would like to be able to use ``cci task run retrieve_source`` ensure that your project's name in ``cumulusci.yml`` matches the name of your package.

Reviewer 2: This line got garbled/cut off.

#. Add the desired metadata components to the package.
#. Extract package in either metadata (``src/``) or ``sfdx`` (``force-app/``) formats.
    * For metadata format::

        $ cci task run retrieve_source

    * For ``sfdx`` format, replace <namespace> with the namespace of your package::

>         $ sfdx force:source:retrieve -n <namespace>

Reviewer 2: This is tricky because if the persistent org is authenticated in CCI, it is not also authenticated in SFDX. Perhaps we should recommend an MDAPI retrieve followed by a convert?

Reviewer 2: We should probably also add a brief discussion of creating scratch org definitions in an attempt to match the existing org.

Author: For your latter comment, do you think that item should be moved out of the "Other Considerations" section at the bottom?

Reviewer 2: I think it probably fits best as a subsection under the Developer Org/Sandbox migration section (see above). What do you think?

On Windows
^^^^^^^^^^

Install Python 3
********************
#. Go to the `Python downloads page <https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-383/>`_.
#. Download the latest Python 3 release. Most users should select the "Download Windows x86-64 executable installer" link for the most recent stable release, but it may depend on your particular computer setup.
#. Use the installation wizard to install:

   * Check the "Add Python <version> to PATH" checkbox
   * Click "Install Now"

.. image:: images/windows_python.png

Install via ``pipx``
***********************
We recommend installing CumulusCI using ``pipx``, which will make sure that CumulusCI and its dependencies are installed into their own Python environment that is separate from other Python software on your computer.
Open your preferred terminal application
(e.g. `CMD.exe <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/cmd>`_ on Windows).
If you already have your terminal open, close it and reopen it. Enter the following command::

    $ python -m pip install --user pipx

.. image:: images/pipx.png

Next we want to modify the default PATH environment variable to include pipx::

>     $ python -m pipx ensurepath

Reviewer 3: Unfortunately pipx ensurepath doesn't seem to do anything on my son's computer. :( 

I can investigate further, but just a warning that this isn't bulletproof.

WINDOWS!!!

Open a new command prompt and verify that pipx is available::

    $ pipx --version

You should see a version number after entering in this command, such as: ``0.15.5.1``.

You can now install CumulusCI with::

>     $ pipx install cumulusci

Reviewer 3: running build_ext
    building 'lxml.etree' extension
    error: Microsoft Visual C++ 14.0 or greater is required. Get it with "Microsoft C++ Build Tools": https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/
    ----------------------------------------
ERROR: Command errored out with exit status 1: 'C:\Users\Cohen\.local\pipx\venvs\cumulusci\Scripts\python.exe' -u -c 'import sys, setuptools, tokenize; sys.argv[0] = '"'"'C:\\Users\\Cohen\\AppData\\Local\\Temp\\pip-install-hm7pczuo\\lxml\\setup.py'"'"'; __file__='"'"'C:\\Users\\Cohen\\AppData\\Local\\Temp\\pip-install-hm7pczuo\\lxml\\setup.py'"'"';f=getattr(tokenize, '"'"'open'"'"', open)(__file__);code=f.read().replace('"'"'\r\n'"'"', '"'"'\n'"'"');f.close();exec(compile(code, __file__, '"'"'exec'"'"'))' install --record 'C:\Users\Cohen\AppData\Local\Temp\pip-record-7l8kg0u0\install-record.txt' --single-version-externally-managed --compile --install-headers 'C:\Users\Cohen\.local\pipx\venvs\cumulusci\include\site\python3.9\lxml' Check the logs for full command output.

Reviewer 4: @acrosman Is this the issue you ran into?

Reviewer 5: Yes.  After installing the CPP tool from that link we ran into errors related to libxml2 missing.  I can get a more detailed error tomorrow if it would be useful

Reviewer: @acrosman You're definitely not supposed to have to install a C compiler to use CumulusCI on Windows! Is it possible you're trying to use Python 3.9 instead of 3.8? The maintainers of the lxml library have not yet published binary distributions of the package for Python 3.9, so pip falls back to trying to compile it from source. We don't support CumulusCI on Python 3.9 yet, largely for this reason.

Reviewer 5: Not my computer so looking at context in his error messages yes 3.9.  I'll help him install 3.8.

Reviewer 5: We did get this sorted out but it took some doing.  I don't know how it would be helpful to provide feedback, but once you get down the 3.9 it is quite a challenge to walk it back.  

Once we have Python 3.8 up and running pipx continued to run off the partially failed install, which contained links to 3.9.  We had to remove all the pipx installed shared scripts and libraries (so everything at %USERPROFILE%\.local\pipx had to be deleted manually).  Once we deleted that content, pipx happily loaded python 3.8 and we were off to the races.

As best I could determine pipx currently contains no built-in mechanism to recover from this state.

Get Started
===========

.. contents:: 
    :depth: 2
    :local:

Install CumulusCI
-----------------

.. note:: These installation instructions assume some familiarity with entering commands into a terminal.
    If that's completely new to you, we recommend starting with the `CumulusCI setup module <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/cumulusci-setup>`_ module on Trailhead to walk you through step by step.

On macOS 
^^^^^^^^
Ensure you have `Homebrew <https://brew.sh/>`_ installed as it is a prerequisite for installing CumulusCI on macOS.

Install via ``pipx`` 
******************************

> Follow `installation instructions for pipx <https://pipxproject.github.io/pipx/installation/>`_.

Reviewer: It's just 2 commands (brew install pipx and pipx ensurepath) -- but may require opening a new terminal before the pipx command is actually available. For Mac I'm inclined to include the commands inline rather than linking to the pipx docs. Less context switching, and less chance of them trying to install using pip instead of homebrew (which means we don't know what python they're using).

Once ``pipx`` is installed, we can install CumulusCI::

    $ pipx install cumulusci

Once finished you can `verify your installation`_.

On Linux
^^^^^^^^

Install via ``pipx``
**************************

> We recommend installing CumulusCI using ``pipx``, which will make sure that CumulusCI and its dependencies are installed into their own Python environment that is separate from other Pytho software on your computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend installing CumulusCI using ``pipx``, which will make sure that CumulusCI and its dependencies are installed into their own Python environment that is separate from other Python software on your computer.
```

Reviewer: And, include this explanation each place we introduce pipx, not just for Linux.

Installation instruction for ``pipx`` can be found `here <https://pipxproject.github.io/pipx/installation/>`_.
Once ``pipx`` is installed, we can install CumulusCI::

    $ pipx install cumulusci

Once finished you can `verify your installation`_.

On Windows
^^^^^^^^^^

Install Python 3
********************
#. Go to the `Python downloads page <https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/>`_.

> #. Download the latest Python 3 release. Most users should select the "Download Windows x86-64 executable installer" link for the most recent stable release, but it may depend on your particular computer setup.

Reviewer: Let's point them to Python 3.8 rather than the latest version, and make sure the screenshot reflects that, until we've had a chance to test that everything works on 3.9

| Salesforce API Version                                           | Which Salesforce API version does your project use? Defaults to the latest.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Which [source format] do you want to use?                        | Metadata API format is the "older" format and stores data under the `src/` directory.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

> |                                                                  | DX source format (aka "SFDX Format") stores data under the `force-app/` directory.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: The actual options they can enter here are `sfdx` and `mdapi`. We should use those here in the docs.

+------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Are you extending another CumulusCI project such as NPSP or EDA? | CumulusCI makes it easy to build extensions of other projects configured for CumulusCI like Salesforce.org's NPSP and EDA.  If you are building an extension of another project using CumulusCI and have access to its Github repository, use this section to configure this project as an extension. |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | Default Branch                                                   | In GitHub, what is your projects master/main brach? Defaults the branch that is currently checked out in your local repository.                                                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Default Branch                                                   | In GitHub, what is your project's master/main branch? Defaults to the branch that is currently checked out in your local repository.                                                                                                                                                                       |
```

+------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | Feature Branch Prefix                                            | In GitHub, do you use a branch prefix you use for feature branches? Defaults to 'feature/'.                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer: All these descriptions for the branch prefixes are not grammatical

Author: Jeez, hopefully this was after a long day of doc writing. lol.

| Minimum code coverage percentage                                 | Sets the minimum allowed code coverage percentage for your project.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

You can verify project initialization was successful by verifying that ``cumulusci.yml`` exists and has contents.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cat cumulusci.yml
    project:
        name: SampleProjectName 
        package:
            name: SamplePackageName
            namespace: sampleNamespace
        .
        .
        .

> The newly created `cumulusci.yml` file is how you configure your project specific tasks, flows, and CumulusCI customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The newly created `cumulusci.yml` file is how you configure your project-specific tasks, flows, and CumulusCI customizations.
```

    $ cci version
    CumulusCI version: 3.20.0 (/path/to/bin/cci)
    Python version: 3.8.5 (/path/to/bin/python)

    You have the latest version of CumulusCI.

You can also use this command to check whether your CumulusCI installation is up to date.

Still need help? Feel free to submit a question on our `Trailblazer community group <https://trailblazers.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F9300000009M9ZCAU>`_.

Setup SFDX 
----------

While it's possible to use ``cci org connect <org_name>`` to connect to a persistent org, we recommend working with scratch orgs created by Salesforce DX.

If you haven't set up Salesforce DX, follow these steps:

1. `Install Salesforce CLI <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_setup.meta/sfdx_setup/sfdx_setup_install_cli.htm>`_
2. `Enable Dev Hub Features in Your Org <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.228.0.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_setup_enable_devhub.htm>`_
3. `Connect SFDX to Your Dev Hub Org <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_web_flow.htm>`_ 
    .. important:: Be sure to use the ``--setdefaultdevhubusername`` option!

> If you have the ``sfdx`` command installed, are connected to your devhub, and set the ``defaultdevhubusername`` config setting (use the ``sfdx force:config:list`` command to verify!), you're now ready to use ``cci`` with ``sfdx``.

Reviewer 6: This seems really important. Should we elaborate more?

Reviewer 2: We could link a second time to the Trailhead setup module (linked above).

Reviewer 6: @davidmreed: Does the Trailhead elaborate further why cci works best with orgs created SFDX? Should we elaborate on this? I think that's what I was getting at.

Reviewer 2: I think that's a pretty big conceptual topic ("Why use scratch orgs?") that we kind of tempt with the first sentence of this otherwise pragmatic section. I wonder if the introductory sentence should just be revised.

Reviewer 6: @Br4nd0R Thoughts? If it's fine as is, I have no problem resolving convo. Just wanted to make sure we're not leaving any necessary details out.

Reviewer 7: If I'm interpreting correctly, perhaps reword to de-emphasize the recommendation piece? "We assume you're using ``cci org connect <org_name>`` to connect to a scratch org created by Salesforce DX, which is more common than connecting to a persistent org."

Reviewer 6: See, I feel like we're hedging instead of firmly directing. "While it's possible, we recommend." But _why_ do we recommend? Why not just drive them straight to it?

Author: As a model-isv, Salesforce.org sets the standard for on-platform development processes. Persistent orgs (sandboxes) have state drift over time. Multiple dev working on multiple sandboxes eventually become out of sync, tests become flakey, and people begin to lose confidence that what was developed in a sandbox will work the same in a production environment. @davidmreed has coined this "The Org Problem".

Scratch orgs (along with the CumulusCI flow; the workflow we recommend using which has a section unto itself elsewhere in the docs) allow for things to be done in a repeatable fashion across all members of a development team. With a persistent org, "starting fresh" (the equivalent of spinning up a new scratch org, installing a package and its dependencies along with any unpackaged metadata) is much more complicated.

I'm ok with just removing mention of the ability to connect to persistent orgs. We specific docs on how to connect persistent orgs which people can find if this is something they want to pursue. We just won't explicitly layout how to use the "CumulusCI Flow" with persistent orgs in our docs.

SFDX supports multiple DevHubs, so CumulusCI uses the one set as ``defaultdevhubusername`` when creating scratch orgs.

Learn more about Salesforce DX at https://developer.salesforce.com/platform/dx.

Connect to GitHub
-----------------
In order to allow CumlusCI to work with your CumulusCI projects in GitHub, connect GitHub as a service in ``cci``.

First, `create a new personal access token <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>`_ with both "repo" and "gist" scopes specified. (Scopes appear as checkboxes when creating the personal access token in GitHub.) Copy the access token to use as the password when configuring the GitHub service.

> [ EXAMPLE PHOTO OF ACCESS TOKEN TO COPY??? ]

Reviewer 6: @Br4nd0R: Thoughts on adding a screenshot of where one would copy access token?

Author: @justinvholt - I don't think we need a screenshot here. GitHub makes it pretty clear what the value of the access token is after it has been created.

Add Your Repo to GitHub
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
With your ``cumulusci.yml`` file committed, create a repository on GitHub for your new project and push your changes there.
There are multiple ways to do this:

* Our `Community Project Development with CumulusCI <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/community-project-development-with-cumulusci?trail_id=build-applications-with-cumulusci>`_ module covers GitHub Desktop in the "Set Up the Project" section.
* If you prefer the command line, GitHub has excellent guides on both `git remote <https://github.com/git-guides/git-remote>`_ and `git push <https://github.com/git-guides/git-push>`_.

Convert an Existing Salesforce Project
--------------------------------------
Converting an existing Salesforce project to use CumulusCI may follow a number of different paths, depending on whether you're practicing the Org Development Model or the Package Development Model; whether or not you're already developing in scratch orgs; and the complexity of your project's dependencies on the org environment.

If you're developing in scratch orgs, then you likely only need to do `project setup`_ and `org shape setup`_.

> If you're developing in persistent orgs, then you likely want to go through **all** of the following sections. Your experience may vary. 

Reviewer 6: The phrasing of this irks me. Is there something we can/should add to it?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're developing in scratch orgs, then you likely only need to do `project setup`_ and `org shape setup`_.

If you're developing in persistent orgs and not already using source control, you'll also need to complete `metadata capture`_. Note that adopting source control and moving from persistent orgs into scratch orgs are case-specific processes; your experience may vary and you may need to undertake additional work as part of those transitions.  
```

Reviewer 6: @davidmreed & @davisagli: Do we need to change the language for "metadata capture" here as well? Should we say "retrieving metadata"?

Reviewer: Yeah, I think we can say "you'll also need to retrieve the existing metadata from the org." (or rephrase if that's better for linking). Anywhere we said "capture" is out of a habit we're trying to break, not intentional.

Reviewer 2: Agreed

You're welcome to discuss project conversion in the `CumulusCI (CCI) Trailblazer group <https://trailblazers.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F9300000009M9Z>`_.

Project Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Prior to capturing your project's Metadata you need to set up the project's root directory. These steps include:

Reviewer 6: Should metadata be capitalized here?

Reviewer 2: No.
```suggestion
Prior to capturing your project's metadata you need to set up the project's root directory. These steps include:
```

* Creating a project directory and initializing it as a Git repository as outlined in `starting a new CumulusCI project`_.
* Initializing the directory as a CumulusCI project as outlined in `project initialization`_.

Metadata Capture
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The following assumes that your project currently lives in a persistent org, such as a Developer Edition org or a sandbox. We recommend a retrieve of MetaData via the Metadata API (via ``sfdx``), followed by converting the source format from "metadata" to "``sfdx``".

Reviewer 6: Retrieve as noun. (Makes sense, but just want to confirm that we want to phrase it that way, as well as whether or not it should be in command font.) MetaData oddly capitalized. Confirm that we want quotes around metadata and sfdx.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metadata Capture
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following assumes that your project currently lives in a persistent org, such as a Developer Edition org or a sandbox. We recommend retrieving metadata via the Metadata API (using the Salesforce CLI), followed by converting the source from Metadata API to SFDX format.
```

Reviewer: Also I know this wording didn't come from you, Justin, but we've been trying to be consistent about talking about "retrieving" metadata rather than "capturing" it, so should avoid Capture in the title of this section. Capture makes it sound like it's on the lam.

Reviewer 6: @davisagli: So should the header be "Retrieving Metadata"?

Get Started
===========

.. contents::
    :depth: 2
    :local:

Install CumulusCI
-----------------

.. note:: These installation instructions assume some familiarity with entering commands into a terminal.

>     If that's completely new to you, we recommend visiting the `CumulusCI Setup module <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/cumulusci-setup>`_ on Trailhead for a step by step walkthrough.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    If that's completely new to you, we recommend visiting the `CumulusCI Setup <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/cumulusci-setup>`_ module on Trailhead for a step-by-step walkthrough.
```

On macOS
^^^^^^^^

`Homebrew <https://brew.sh/>`_ is a prerequisite for installing CumulusCI on macOS. Start there.

Install via ``pipx``
********************

``pipx`` ensures that CumulusCI and its dependencies are installed into their own Python environment separate from other Python software on your computer. **We cannot recommend it enough!**

> First, install ``pipx`` with the following commands::

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
First, install ``pipx`` with the following commands::
```
```suggestion
First, install ``pipx`` with these commands::
```
Style is to avoid "following" unless truly necessary: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/following

> First, install ``pipx`` with the following commands::

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
First, install ``pipx`` with these commands::
```
Style is to avoid "following" unless truly necessary: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/following

    $ brew install pipx
    $ pipx ensurepath

After ``pipx`` installs, install CumulusCI::

    $ pipx install cumulusci

> Once finished `verify your installation`_.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
When finished, `verify your installation`_.
```
Style is to avoid using "once" to mean "after" or "when": https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/once%2C+after%2C+when

On Linux
^^^^^^^^

Install via ``pipx``
********************

``pipx`` ensures that CumulusCI and its dependencies are installed into their own Python environment separate from other Python software on your computer. **We cannot recommend it enough!**

Installation instructions for ``pipx`` can be found `here <https://pipxproject.github.io/pipx/installation/>`_.

After ``pipx`` installs, install CumulusCI::

    $ pipx install cumulusci

Once finished `verify your installation`_.

On Windows
^^^^^^^^^^

Install Python 3
********************

#. Go to the `Python downloads page <https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-383/>`_.

> #. Download the latest Python 3 release. Most users should select the "Download Windows x86-64 executable installer" link for the most recent stable release, but it may depend on your particular computer setup.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
#. Download the latest Python 3 release. Most users select the "Download Windows x86-64 executable installer" link for the most recent stable release, but it depends on your particular computer setup.
```
Avoid modal verbs like "may", "should", and "might": https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/modal+verbs

> #. Use the installation wizard to install:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
#. Install using the installation wizard.
```

>    * Check the "Add Python <version> to PATH" checkbox.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
   * Select "Add Python <version> to PATH."
```
Style for checkboxes: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/checkbox

Reviewer 6: No problem. Good to know, though. I'll update accordingly in the other sections.

   * Click "Install Now".

.. image:: images/windows_python.png

Install via ``pipx``
********************

``pipx`` ensures that CumulusCI and its dependencies are installed into their own Python environment separate from other Python software on your computer. **We cannot recommend it enough!**

> Open your preferred terminal application (e.g. `CMD.exe <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/cmd>`_ on Windows).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Open your preferred terminal application (such as `CMD.exe <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/cmd>`_ on Windows).
```
Style is to avoid latinisms: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/Latin+expressions

> If you already have your terminal open, close it and reopen it. Enter the following command::

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If your terminal is already open, close it and reopen it. Enter this command::
```

    $ python -m pip install --user pipx

.. image:: images/pipx.png

To permanently modify the default environment variables:

> 1. Click Start and search for "edit environment variables", or open System properties and click Advanced system settings.

Reviewer 7: For search terms, we'd typically tag as <userinput> which is formatted as a monospace font, like Courier. Do we have that option?

Author: I believe we want the following formatting here:
```suggestion
1. Click Start and search for ``edit environment variables``, or open System properties and click ``Advanced system settings``.
```

2. Click the Environment Variables button.

> 3. To change System variables, you need non-restricted access to your machine (i.e. Administrator rights). Add the following paths to your PATH environment variable:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
3. To change System variables, you need non-restricted access (administrator rights) to your machine. Add these paths to your PATH environment variable.
```

   * ``%USERPROFILE%\.local\bin``
   * ``%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\Python\Python38\Scripts``

.. image:: images/env-var2.png

.. note::  Be precise when entering these paths. Add them at the very end of the Variable Value already in place. Separate each path by a semicolon (;) with no space between path names.

Open a new command prompt and verify that ``pipx`` is available::

    pipx --version

> You should see a version number after entering this command, such as: ``0.12.3.1``.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Look for a version number after entering this command, such as: ``0.12.3.1``.
```
Rephrasing to avoid "should."

If you get an error instead, such as ``'pipx' is not recognized as an internal or external command,
operable program or batch file.``, confirm that your environment variables have been updated.

Finally, install CumulusCI:

> Inside your terminal application, enter the following command::

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In the terminal, enter this command::
```
Simpler.

    pipx install cumulusci

Once finished `verify your installation`_.

Verify Your Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In a new terminal window, verify that CumulusCI installed correctly by running ``cci version``.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci version
    CumulusCI version: 3.20.0 (/path/to/bin/cci)
    Python version: 3.8.5 (/path/to/bin/python)

    You have the latest version of CumulusCI.

You can also use this command to check whether your CumulusCI installation is up to date.

Still need help? Feel free to submit a question on our `Trailblazer community group <https://trailblazers.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F9300000009M9ZCAU>`_.

> Setup SFDX 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Set Up SFDX 
```
Two words when used here as a verb. https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/setup%2C+set+up

Reviewer 6: Yeesh, can't believe I missed this one. Egregious.

----------

While it's possible to use ``cci org connect <org_name>`` to connect to a persistent org, we recommend working with scratch orgs created by Salesforce DX.

> If you haven't set up Salesforce DX, follow these steps:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If you haven't set up Salesforce DX, follow these steps.
```

If you have the ``sfdx`` command installed, are connected to your devhub, and set the ``defaultdevhubusername`` config setting (use the ``sfdx force:config:list`` command to verify!), you're now ready to use ``cci`` with ``sfdx``.

SFDX supports multiple DevHubs, so CumulusCI uses the one set as ``defaultdevhubusername`` when creating scratch orgs.

Learn more about Salesforce DX at https://developer.salesforce.com/platform/dx.

Connect to GitHub
-----------------

In order to allow CumlusCI to work with your CumulusCI projects in GitHub, connect GitHub as a service in ``cci``.

First, `create a new personal access token <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>`_ with both "repo" and "gist" scopes specified. (Scopes appear as checkboxes when creating the personal access token in GitHub.) Copy the access token to use as the password when configuring the GitHub service.

[ EXAMPLE PHOTO OF ACCESS TOKEN TO COPY??? ]

Next, run the following command and provide your GitHub username and access token as the password::

    $ cci service connect github

Verify the GitHub service is connected by running ``cci service list``:

.. image:: images/service-list.png

> Once you've configured the ``github`` service it will be available to **all** CumulusCI projects.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
After you've configured the ``github`` service, it's available to _all_ CumulusCI projects.
```

Services are stored in the global CumulusCI keychain by default.

> Work on an Existing CumulusCI Project

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Work On an Existing CumulusCI Project
```
I believe this is a verb phrase, so we do capitalize the "O": https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/title+capitalization

-------------------------------------

> Follow this section if there's an existing CumulusCI project on GitHub that you'd like to work on.
> 
> .. note:: CumulusCI does not support projects stored on other Git hosts such as BitBucket or GitLab at this time.
> 
> There are three preliminary steps for working on an existing CumulusCI project. You need to:
> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If you'd like to work on an existing CumulusCI project on GitHub, here's what's required.

* Confirm the project is stored on GitHub. CumulusCI doesn't support other Git hosts such as BitBucket or GitLab.
```
Consider stating more simply?

* `Install CumulusCI`_
* `Install Git <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git>`_
* `Clone the Project's GitHub Repository <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories>`_

> You can change directories into the project's root directory and begin executing ``cci`` commands. For example, ``cci project info`` displays information about the project:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
You can change directories into the project's root directory and begin executing ``cci`` commands. For example, ``cci project info`` shows information about the project.
```
Style point for avoiding "displays": https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=DOCTEAM&title=display+vs+show

    package:
        name: CumulusCI Test
        name_managed: None
        namespace: ccitest
        install_class: None
        uninstall_class: None
        api_version: 33.0
    git:
        default_branch: main
        prefix_feature: feature/
        prefix_beta: beta/
        prefix_release: release/
        release_notes:
            parsers:
                1:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Critical Changes
                2:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Changes
                3:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubIssuesParser
                    title: Issues Closed
                4:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: New Metadata
                5:
                    class_path: cumulusci.tasks.release_notes.parser.GithubLinesParser
                    title: Deleted Metadata
        repo_url: https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-Test
    test:
        name_match: %_TEST%

> Starting a New CumulusCI Project

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Start a New CumulusCI Project
```

--------------------------------

There are three preliminary steps for starting a brand new CumulusCI project. You need to:

#. `Install CumulusCI`_
#. `Install Git <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git>`_

> #. `Install the Salesforce CLI <https://developer.salesforce.com/tools/sfdxcli>`_

Reviewer 7: Similar comment as above in Work On an Existing CumulusCI Project. It also looks like this one is an ordered list and the one in Existing is unordered. They should be consistent, unless order doesn't matter in Existing and it does matter here?

Author: Order doesn't matter here.
```suggestion
There are three preliminary steps for starting a brand new CumulusCI project. You need to:

* `Install CumulusCI`_
* `Install Git <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git>`_
* `Install the Salesforce CLI <https://developer.salesforce.com/tools/sfdxcli>`_
```

> First, make a directory with your project's name, navigate into the directory, and initialize it as a Git repository.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
First, make a directory with your project's name, navigate to the directory, and initialize it as a Git repository.
```

+------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Minimum code coverage percentage                                 | Sets the minimum allowed code coverage percentage for your project.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Verify Project Initialization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Verify project initialization was successful by verifying that ``cumulusci.yml`` exists and has contents.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Verify successful project initialization by verifying that ``cumulusci.yml`` exists and has contents.
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ cat cumulusci.yml
    project:
        name: SampleProjectName
        package:
            name: SamplePackageName
            namespace: sampleNamespace
        .
        .
        .

The ``cumulusci.yml`` file configures your project-specific tasks, flows, and customizations.

> For more information regarding configuration, check out our `project configuration <#TODO internal ref here>`_ section of the docs.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
For more information about project configuration, check out `project configuration <#TODO internal ref here>`_.
```

> For more information regarding configuration, check out our `project configuration <#TODO internal ref here>`_ section of the docs.

Reviewer 7: Is this cross reference really needed here? It seems to interrupt the description of the cumulusci.yml file, and the "You can even" bit that follows. Delete if possible. If it is needed, consider stringing the sentence immediately after the preceding one, rather than making it its own paragraph. On first reading, I didn't realize they were so related.

Author: I think this could be removed. If users are really itching to look at how to configure things I'm hoping that the section title "Configuring CumulusCI" will be obvious enough.

> You can even add and commit it to your Git repository:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
You can even add and commit it to your Git repository.
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ git add cumulusci.yml
    $ git commit -m "Initialized CumulusCI Configuration"

Add Your Repo to GitHub
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> With your ``cumulusci.yml`` file committed, create a repository on GitHub for your new project and push your changes there.
> There are multiple ways to do this:
> 
> * Our `Community Project Development with CumulusCI <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/community-project-development-with-cumulusci?trail_id=build-applications-with-cumulusci>`_ module covers GitHub Desktop in the "Set Up the Project" section.
> * If you prefer the command line, GitHub has excellent guides on both `git remote <https://github.com/git-guides/git-remote>`_ and `git push <https://github.com/git-guides/git-push>`_.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
With your ``cumulusci.yml`` file committed, create a repository on GitHub for your new project and push your changes there, using whichever method you prefer.

* Our `Community Project Development with CumulusCI <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/modules/community-project-development-with-cumulusci?trail_id=build-applications-with-cumulusci>`_ module covers using GitHub Desktop in the Set Up the Project section.
* If you prefer using the command line, GitHub has excellent guides on both `git remote <https://github.com/git-guides/git-remote>`_ and `git push <https://github.com/git-guides/git-push>`_.
```
Suggested rephrasing to avoid the mushiness of "There are" and a "this" without a specified noun.

Convert an Existing Salesforce Project
--------------------------------------

> Converting an existing Salesforce project to use CumulusCI may follow a number of different paths, depending on whether you're practicing the Org Development Model or the Package Development Model; whether or not you're already developing in scratch orgs; and the complexity of your project's dependencies on the org environment.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Converting an existing Salesforce project to use CumulusCI can follow a number of different paths, depending on whether you're practicing the Org Development Model or the Package Development Model; whether or not you're already developing in scratch orgs; and the complexity of your project's dependencies on the org environment.
```

> If you're developing in persistent orgs and not already using source control, you'll also need to retrieve the existing metadata from the org. Note that adopting source control and moving from persistent orgs into scratch orgs are case-specific processes; your experience may vary and you may need to undertake additional work as part of those transitions.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If you're developing in persistent orgs and not already using source control, you also need to retrieve the existing metadata from the org. Note that the processes of adopting source control and moving from persistent orgs to scratch orgs tend to look different for everyone, and these transitions sometimes require additional work.
```
"case-specific processes" threw me a bit. Attempted rephrase to omit that phrase and to avoid using "may."

You're welcome to discuss project conversion in the `CumulusCI (CCI) Trailblazer group <https://trailblazers.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F9300000009M9Z>`_.

Project Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Prior to retrieving your project's metadata you need to set up the project's root directory. These steps include:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Before retrieving your project's metadata, set up the project's root directory.
```

> Prior to retrieving your project's metadata you need to set up the project's root directory. These steps include:
> 
> * Creating a project directory and initializing it as a Git repository as outlined in `starting a new CumulusCI project`_.
> * Initializing the directory as a CumulusCI project as outlined in `project initialization`_.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Before retrieving your project's metadata, set up the project's root directory.

* Create a project directory and initialize it as a Git repository as outlined in `start a new CumulusCI project`_.
* Initialize the directory as a CumulusCI project as outlined in `project initialization`_.
```

Reviewer 6: @lianeyee Should we also capitalize the names of these sections we're linking to?

Reviewer 6: Nevermind. Answered it for myself. :)

> Retrieving Metadata

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Retrieve Metadata
```

Author: I want us to be conscious of the length of our subheadings, as it can clutter the right hand navbar which allows users to navigate within a section. Let's make this change though. I think this is something that we will ultimately want to consider when we're closer to releasing the docs.

Reviewer: @Br4nd0R we can probably tweak the width of the sidebar using CSS if that becomes a compelling need.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The following assumes that your project currently lives in a persistent org, such as a Developer Edition org or a sandbox. We recommend retrieving metadata via the Metadata API (using the Salesforce CLI), followed by converting the source from Metadata API to SFDX format.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This documentation assumes that your project currently lives in a persistent org, such as a Developer Edition org or a Sandbox. We recommend retrieving metadata via the Metadata API (using the Salesforce CLI), followed by converting the source from Metadata API to SFDX format.
```

> #. If the metadata you want to retrieve isn't already in a package, `create one <https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=creating_packages.htm>`_.

Reviewer 7: For accessibility reasons, it's better to make the hyperlinked text the actual title of the article that you're linking to. In this case, probably best to carve out a separate sentence. See [Create a Package](https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=creating_packages.htm&type=5) in Salesforce Help.

    .. note:: If your project contains a managed package, ensure that the package namespace matches the namespace you entered when running ``cci project init``.

> #. Run the `retrieve command <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_reference.meta/sfdx_cli_reference/cli_reference_force_mdapi.htm#cli_reference_retrieve>`_ to extract your package metadata::

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
#. Run the `retrieve <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_reference.meta/sfdx_cli_reference/cli_reference_force_mdapi.htm#cli_reference_retrieve>`_ command to extract your package metadata.
```

    $ sfdx force:source:retrieve -n package_name /path/to/project/

That's it! You now have all of the metadata you care about in a single Git repository configured for use with CumulusCI.

> At this point you may want to `add your repo to GitHub`_, or perhaps begin `configuring CumulusCI` <#TODO doc ref>.

Reviewer 7: Rephrase to avoid "may."

Org Shape Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: link to org section

Other Conversion Considerations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> * If you or your team have been working with `scratch org definition files <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_scratch_orgs_def_file.htm>`_ for use with ``sfdx``, consult our documentation on `configuring orgs` <#TODO doc ref> to utilize them with CumulusCI.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* If you or your team have been working with `scratch org definition files <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_scratch_orgs_def_file.htm>`_ for use with ``sfdx``, consult our documentation on `configuring orgs` <#TODO doc ref> to use them with CumulusCI.
```

> * If you have metadata that you would like deployed pre or post deployment, `#TODO <pre/post ref>`.
> * If you have data that you need to include for testing or production purposes, visit our section on `Automating Data Operations` <#TODO doc ref>.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* If you have metadata that you would like deployed pre or post deployment, see `#TODO <pre/post ref>`.
* If you have data that you need to include for testing or production purposes, see `Automating Data Operations` <#TODO doc ref>.
```
For these straightforward pointers to other doc, IMO it's better to use the same text to lead into the linked docs. More readable, less cognitive demand.
